{{! vim: set ft=email }}
Hi ~{{user.username}}!

How are you enjoying sourcehut? If you have any feedback, please reply
to this email - there's a human being over here. As promised, I'm
reaching out again (and for the last time) to ask if you'll consider
purchasing a subscription.

Sourcehut is funded entirely by its users, which makes it only
accountable to you - not to investors seeking a profit. This business
model is what allows us to have a sustainable service which reaches out
to and embraces the rest of the community, instead of building yet
another corporate walled garden. Thanks to the support of our users,
Sourcehut stays sustainable, I work on it full-time, and additional
profits are re-invested in sponsoring free software developers to work
on self-directed work improving the ecosystem as a whole.

During the alpha, payment is optional. If you think sr.ht has earned
your subscription and you want to support the service, you can set up
billing here:

https://meta.sr.ht/billing

This is the last time you'll receive an automated email from me which
isn't for typical account maintenance. If you'd like to keep up to date
with news on sourcehut, you can opt-in by subscribing to the
sr.ht-announce mailing list:

https://lists.sr.ht/~sircmpwn/sr.ht-announce

You can subscribe to it without leaving your inbox by sending an email
to ~sircmpwn/sr.ht-announce+subscribe@lists.sr.ht.

If you're just getting started with sourcehut, you can learn more about
how to use the various services available at man.sr.ht, which was
recently redesigned to be more accessible and updated with tutorials to
ease you into the service:

https://man.sr.ht

The sr.ht-discuss list is also a great place to send questions, feature
requests, announce your cool new project hosted on sourcehut, and start
discussions:

https://lists.sr.ht/~sircmpwn/sr.ht-discuss

Again, feel free to simply reply to this email to share your feedback
and questions with me. Thank you for using sourcehut!

-- 
Drew DeVault
